docs: chatbot with files tutorial (#8813)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Tutorials/chat-with-files.md

1. In Langflow, click **New Flow**, and then select the **Basic prompting** template.
2. Add your **OpenAI** API key to the **Language Model** component.
3. To confirm that the chatbot responds as expected, open the <Icon name="Play" aria-hidden="true" /> **Playground** and then ask a question.
The LLM should respond as the **Prompt** component specifies.
With the basic flow responding correctly, modify the **Prompt** component to accept additional inputs.
4. In the **Prompt** component, open the **Template** field, and replace the current prompt with the following text:
    ```text
    ChatInput:
    {chat-input}
    File:
    {file}
    ```
    The **Prompt** component adds ports to accept new inputs for each value with curly braces, in this case, a chat input and a file.

    :::tip
    The port names are for illustrative purposes. You don't have to name them after the component they're connected to.
    :::

5. Add a [File component](/components-data#file) to the flow, and connect the **Raw Content** output to the Prompt component's `file` input.

    Your flow should look like this:

    ![File loader chat flow](/img/tutorial-chat-file-loader.png)

>     The flow is complete.
>     If you'd like, add files to the File component and chat with it within the Langflow IDE.
>     In the next section, you will load files and chat with your flow from a Python application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

See my suggestion on like 37 to move this content closer to the line where you add the file component.

## Send requests to your flow from a Python application

> With your flow running locally, send a request to `POST /run` to load a file to your flow, send a chat message, and get a result back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section of the tutorial demonstrates how you can send file input to a flow from an application.

Send a `POST /run` request to your Langflow server with the file you want to upload and a text prompt.
The result includes the outcome of the flow run and the LLM's response.

This example uses a local Langflow instance, and it asks the LLM to evaluate a sample resume.
```

Should it be with "Langflow running locally"?

:::tip

> To easily construct file upload requests in Python, JavaScript, and curl templates, check out the [Langflow File Upload Utility](https://langflow-file-upload-examples.onrender.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For help with constructing file upload requests for Python, JavaScript, and curl, see the [Langflow File Upload Utility](https://langflow-file-upload-examples.onrender.com).
```

:::

1. To construct the request, gather the following values from Langflow.

>     * `LANGFLOW_SERVER_ADDRESS`: The default value is `127.0.0.1:7860`.

Reviewer: Please give hints about how to find these values. For example, if they would be in the auto-generated snippets, that would be a big help.

    * `FLOW_ID`: The UUID of your flow, or the endpoint name you've chosen.
    * File Component name: To find the ID of your file component, in the File component, click **Controls**. For this example, the component name is `File-KZP68`.
    * Input value: This is the message you want to send to the Chat Input of your flow, such as `Evaluate this resume for a job opening in my Marketing department.`

>     * File path: The path to the local file you want to load with your request. This example is loading `fake-resume.txt` from the same file location as the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * File path: The path to the local file you want to load with your request. This example is loading `fake-resume.txt` from the same directory as the script.
```

>     * Session ID: Optional. For more information, see [session ID](/session-id).

Reviewer: Can probably omit since this is a tutorial, but if we recommend using this, then please provide more detail about why you should use it.

>     * Langflow API key: Required. To create an API key, see [API keys](/configuration-api-keys).

Reviewer: This is the only one you have marked required but most of the others aren't marked as either required or optional.

2. Replace the values in the script below.

>     <details open>
>         <summary>Python</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Having details set to open by default defeats the purpose of details. Unless you plan to add Java and HTTP examples, I would just leave out the details wrapper.

    response = requests.request("POST", url, headers=headers, data=payload, files=files)
    print(response.text)

    # 4. Get the uploaded file path from the response
    uploaded_data = response.json()
    uploaded_path = uploaded_data.get('path')

    # 5. Call the Langflow run endpoint with the uploaded file path
    run_url = "http://LANGFLOW_SERVER_ADDRESS/api/v1/run/FLOW_ID"
    run_payload = {
        "input_value": "Evaluate this resume for a job opening in my Marketing department.",
        "output_type": "chat",
        "input_type": "chat",
        "tweaks": {
            "File-KZP68": {
                "path": uploaded_path
            }
        }
    }
    run_headers = {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Accept': 'application/json',
        'x-api-key': 'LANGFLOW_API_KEY'
    }
    run_response = requests.post(run_url, headers=run_headers, data=json.dumps(run_payload))
    langflow_data = run_response.json()
    # Output only the message
    message = None
    try:
        message = langflow_data['outputs'][0]['outputs'][0]['results']['message']['data']['text']
    except (KeyError, IndexError, TypeError):
        pass
    print(message)

    ```

>     </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    This script contains two requests.

>     The first request uploads `fake-resume.txt` to your Langflow server at the `/api/v2/files` endpoint, which returns a file path that can be referenced in subsequent Langflow requests, `02791d46-812f-4988-ab1c-7c430214f8d5/fake-resume.txt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The first request uploads `fake-resume.txt` to your Langflow server at the `/v2/files` endpoint, which returns a file path that can be referenced in subsequent Langflow requests: `02791d46-812f-4988-ab1c-7c430214f8d5/fake-resume.txt`
```

>     The second request sends a chat message to the Langflow flow at the `/api/v1/run/` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The second request sends a chat message to the Langflow flow at the `/v1/run/` endpoint.
```

Another thing we should standardize on is how much of the path to include for these... should we always include /v1 or /v2 even if it only has one? and should we include /api/ or not?

>     The `tweaks` parameter includes the path to the uploaded file as the variable `uploaded_path`.

Author: include that the tweak is using the File component directly with the tweak

> 3. Run the script to send the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the script to send the requests and test the flow.
```

    <details open>
    <summary>Response</summary>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    The following is an example of a response returned from this tutorial's flow. Due to the nature of LLMs and variations in your inputs, your response might be different.

```

    ### Areas for Improvement:
    1. **Specificity in Skills**: While the skills listed are relevant, providing examples of how she has applied these skills in her previous roles could strengthen her resume further.

    2. **References**: While stating that references are available upon request is standard, including a couple of testimonials or notable endorsements could enhance credibility.

    3. **Formatting**: Ensure that the resume is visually appealing and easy to read. Clear headings and bullet points help in quickly identifying key information.

    ### Conclusion:
    Overall, Emily J. Wilson's resume reflects a well-rounded marketing professional with a proven track record of success. If her experience aligns with the specific needs of your Marketing department, she could be a valuable addition to your team. Consider inviting her for an interview to further assess her fit for the role.
    ```

    </details>

    The initial output contains the JSON response object from the file upload endpoint, with the internal path where Langflow stores the file.

>     The LLM then retrieves this file and correctly evaluates its content, in this case the suitability of the resume for a job position.

Author: That would be a good idea

---
title: Create a chatbot that can ingest files
slug: /chat-with-files
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This tutorial shows you how to build a chatbot that can read and answer questions about files you upload, such as meeting notes or job applications.

For example, you could upload a contract and ask, “What are the termination clauses in this agreement?” Or upload a resume and ask, “Does this candidate have experience with marketing analytics?”

> The main focus of this tutorial is to show you how to provide files as input to a Langflow flow, so your chatbot can use the content of those files in its responses.

Reviewer: 👏🏻

## Prerequisites

- [A running Langflow instance](/get-started-installation)
- [A Langflow API key](/configuration-api-keys)
- [An OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

    This tutorial uses an OpenAI LLM. If you want to use a different provider, you need a valid credential for that provider.

## Create a flow that accepts file input

To ingest files, your flow must have a **File** component attached to a component that receives input, such as a **Prompt** or **Agent** component.

> The following steps modify the [**Basic prompting**](/basic-prompting) template to accept file input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps modify the [**Basic prompting**](/basic-prompting) template to accept file input:

```

1. In Langflow, click **New Flow**, and then select the **Basic prompting** template.
2. In the **Language Model** component, enter your OpenAI API key.

    If you want to use a different provider or model, edit the **Model Provider**, **Model Name**, and **API Key** fields accordingly.
3. To verify that your API key is valid, click <Icon name="Play" aria-hidden="true" /> **Playground**, and then ask the LLM a question.

> The LLM should respond as the **Prompt** component's **Template** field specifies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LLM should respond according to the specifications in the **Prompt** component's **Template** field.
```

> 4. Modify the **Prompt** component to accept file input in addition to chat input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Exit the **Playground**, and then modify the **Prompt** component to accept file input in addition to chat input.
```

To do this, edit the **Template** field, and then replace the default prompt with the following text:
    ```text
    ChatInput:
    {chat-input}
    File:
    {file}
    ```
    The **Prompt** component gets a new input port for each value in curly braces. At this point, your **Prompt** component should have **chat-input** and **file** input ports.

    :::tip
    Within the curly braces, you can use any port name you like. For this tutorial, the ports are named after the components that connect to them.
    :::

> 5. Add a [File component](/components-data#file) to the flow, and then connect the **Raw Content** output to the Prompt component's **file** input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add a [File component](/components-data#file) to the flow, and then connect the **Raw Content** output port to the Prompt component's **file** input port.
To connect ports, click and drag from one port to the other.
```

    You can add files directly to the file component to pre-load input before running the flow, or you can load files at runtime. The next section of this tutorial covers runtime file uploads.

    At this point your flow has five components. The Chat Input and File components are connected to the Prompt component's input ports. Then, the Prompt component's output port is connected to the Language Model component's input port. Finally, the Language Model component's output port is connected to the Chat Output component, which returns the final response to the user.

    ![File loader chat flow](/img/tutorial-chat-file-loader.png)

## Send requests to your flow from a Python application

This section of the tutorial demonstrates how you can send file input to a flow from an application.

> Send a `POST /run` request to your Langflow server with the file you want to upload and a text prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, your application must send a `POST /run` request to your Langflow server with the file you want to upload and a text prompt.
```

The result includes the outcome of the flow run and the LLM's response.

This example uses a local Langflow instance, and it asks the LLM to evaluate a sample resume.

> If you don't have a resume on hand, use [fake-resume.txt](/files/fake-resume.txt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have a resume on hand, you can download [fake-resume.txt](/files/fake-resume.txt).
```

:::tip

> For help with constructing file upload requests for Python, JavaScript, and curl, see the [Langflow File Upload Utility](https://langflow-file-upload-examples.onrender.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For help with constructing file upload requests in Python, JavaScript, and curl, see the [Langflow File Upload Utility](https://langflow-file-upload-examples.onrender.com).
```

:::

> 1. To construct the request, gather the following values from Langflow.
> You can find the values for `LANGFLOW_SERVER_ADDRESS` and `FLOW_ID` in the auto-generated code snippets provided in the [API pane](/concepts-publish#api-pane).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To construct the request, gather the following information:
```

>     * `LANGFLOW_SERVER_ADDRESS`: The default value is `127.0.0.1:7860`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `LANGFLOW_SERVER_ADDRESS`: Your Langflow server's domain. The default value is `127.0.0.1:7860`. You can get this value from the code snippets on your flow's [**API access** pane](/concepts-publish#api-pane).
```

>     * `FLOW_ID`: The UUID of your flow, or the endpoint name you've chosen in the **Input schema** pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `FLOW_ID`: Your flow's UUID or custom endpoint name. You can get this value from the code snippets on your flow's [**API access** pane](/concepts-publish#api-pane).
```

>     * File Component name: To find the ID of your file component, in the File component, click **Controls**. For this example, the component name is `File-KZP68`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `FILE_COMPONENT_ID`: The UUID of the File component in your flow, such as `File-KZP68`. To find the component ID, open your flow in Langflow, click the File component, and then click **Controls**.
```

>     * Input value: This is the message you want to send to the Chat Input of your flow, such as `Evaluate this resume for a job opening in my Marketing department.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `CHAT_INPUT`: The message you want to send to the Chat Input of your flow, such as `Evaluate this resume for a job opening in my Marketing department.`
```

>     * File path: The path to the local file you want to load with your request. This example is loading `fake-resume.txt` from the same directory as the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `FILE_NAME` and `FILE_PATH`: The name and path to the local file that you want to send to your flow.
```

>     * Langflow API key: To create an API key, see [API keys](/configuration-api-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `LANGFLOW_API_KEY`: A valid Langflow API key. To create an API key, see [API keys](/configuration-api-keys).
```

> 2. Replace the values in the script below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the following script into a Python file, and then replace the placeholders with the information you gathered in the previous step:
```

    ```python
    # Python example using requests
    import requests
    import json

    # 1. Set the upload URL
    url = "http://LANGFLOW_SERVER_ADDRESS/api/v2/files/"

    # 2. Prepare the file and payload
    payload = {}
    files = [

>       ('file', ('fake-resume.txt', open('fake-resume.txt', 'rb'), 'application/octet-stream'))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ('file', ('FILE_PATH', open('FILE_NAME', 'rb'), 'application/octet-stream'))
```

    ]
    headers = {
      'Accept': 'application/json',
      'x-api-key': 'LANGFLOW_API_KEY'
    }

    # 3. Upload the file to Langflow
    response = requests.request("POST", url, headers=headers, data=payload, files=files)
    print(response.text)

    # 4. Get the uploaded file path from the response
    uploaded_data = response.json()
    uploaded_path = uploaded_data.get('path')

    # 5. Call the Langflow run endpoint with the uploaded file path
    run_url = "http://LANGFLOW_SERVER_ADDRESS/api/v1/run/FLOW_ID"
    run_payload = {

>         "input_value": "Evaluate this resume for a job opening in my Marketing department.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "input_value": "CHAT_INPUT",
```

        "output_type": "chat",
        "input_type": "chat",
        "tweaks": {

>             "File-KZP68": {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "FILE_COMPONENT_ID": {
```

                "path": uploaded_path
            }
        }
    }
    run_headers = {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Accept': 'application/json',
        'x-api-key': 'LANGFLOW_API_KEY'
    }
    run_response = requests.post(run_url, headers=run_headers, data=json.dumps(run_payload))
    langflow_data = run_response.json()
    # Output only the message
    message = None
    try:
        message = langflow_data['outputs'][0]['outputs'][0]['results']['message']['data']['text']
    except (KeyError, IndexError, TypeError):
        pass
    print(message)

    ```

    This script contains two requests.

>     The first request uploads `fake-resume.txt` to your Langflow server at the `/v2/files` endpoint, which returns a file path that can be referenced in subsequent Langflow requests: `02791d46-812f-4988-ab1c-7c430214f8d5/fake-resume.txt`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The first request uploads a file, such as `fake-resume.txt`, to your Langflow server at the `/v2/files` endpoint. This request returns a file path that can be referenced in subsequent Langflow requests, such as `02791d46-812f-4988-ab1c-7c430214f8d5/fake-resume.txt`
```

    The second request sends a chat message to the Langflow flow at the `/v1/run/` endpoint.
    The `tweaks` parameter includes the path to the uploaded file as the variable `uploaded_path`, and sends this file directly to the File component.

> 3. Run the script to send the requests and test the flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Save and run the script to send the requests and test the flow.
```

Just in case.

    ### Areas for Improvement:
    1. **Specificity in Skills**: While the skills listed are relevant, providing examples of how she has applied these skills in her previous roles could strengthen her resume further.

    2. **References**: While stating that references are available upon request is standard, including a couple of testimonials or notable endorsements could enhance credibility.

    3. **Formatting**: Ensure that the resume is visually appealing and easy to read. Clear headings and bullet points help in quickly identifying key information.

    ### Conclusion:
    Overall, Emily J. Wilson's resume reflects a well-rounded marketing professional with a proven track record of success. If her experience aligns with the specific needs of your Marketing department, she could be a valuable addition to your team. Consider inviting her for an interview to further assess her fit for the role.
    ```

    </details>

    The initial output contains the JSON response object from the file upload endpoint, including the internal path where Langflow stores the file.

>     The LLM then retrieves this file and correctly evaluates its content, in this case the suitability of the resume for a job position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The LLM then retrieves this file and evaluates its content, in this case the suitability of the resume for a job position.
```

## Next steps

> To process multiple files in a single flow run, add a separate File component for each file you want to ingest. Each file must be uploaded and the component referenced individually in your API request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To process multiple files in a single flow run, add a separate File component for each file you want to ingest. Then, modify your script to upload each file, retrieve each returned file path, and then pass a unique file path to each File component ID.
```

> For example, modify the `tweaks` to accept multiple file components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can modify `tweaks` to accept multiple file components.
```

> This is just an example, and not working code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This following code is just an example; it is not working code:
```
